# $\text{ex}(n, K_3, \hat P_4)$
This repository contains code that is used to verify some small values of $\text{ex}(n, K_3, \hat P_4)$.
Here $P_4$ is the path on 4 vertices and $\hat P_4$ the suspension defined as in [Mubayi-Mukherjee, 2023](https://sayan.mukherjee.moe/publication/suspensionFree).

For the blog post that refers to this repository, check my [webpage](https://sayan.mukherjee.moe/publication/suspensionFree).
We show that for $n=5,6,7,8$ the values of $\text{ex}(n, K_3,\hat P_4)$ equal $4,5,8,8$ respectively.

This result was used to prove that $\text{ex}(n, K_3, \hat P_4) = \lfloor n^2/8\rfloor$ for $n\ge 8$.
It is the main result of [this preprint](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.04369).

## Code Structure
- `triangle_count_parallel.py` is the file which enumerates all $\hat{P}_4$-free graphs on `num_vertex` number of vertices and `num_triangles` number of triangles. 
If the code executes without printing any graphs, it means that no such graph was found.

- To run this code for any particular tuple $(n,t)$ where $n$ is the desired number of nodes and $t$ the number of triangles, just set these variables to the desired values in the `triangle_count_parallel.py` file and run 
  ```python triangle_count_parallel.py```
  from the terminal.

- `triangle_count.ipynb` is the [jupyter notebook](./triangle_count.ipynb) which contains the details of the checks performed and their wall times.

- The directory `output-img` contains all the output images generated by our code. For more details on how they were generated, refer to the [jupyter notebook](./triangle_count.ipynb)

## Prerequisites
The code requires the following libraries (can be installed with `pip`): `joblib`, `multiprocessing`, `networkx`, `matplotlib`.

## Questions or Comments?
Please drop me an email at [sayan@blueqat.com](mailto:sayan@blueqat.com) for questions or comments.
